Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
Ma.
It's usually the
first word we speak.
A word that's
impossible to define...
Because no other
words can do it justice.
Mothers are considered
greater than God.
They're synonymous with sacrifice.
But my mother isn't like that.
Today, I'm doing what perhaps
no daughter has done before.
I'm filing a criminal
case against my mother.
There she is.
Ms. Anupama Banerji...
Ms. Shakuntala Devi's daughter.
This is Mr Graham, the mediator.
- Hello.
You okay?
So, Ms. Banerji, you have
accused Ms. Shakuntala Devi
of illegally trying to destroy
your financial standing.
She is your mother, and a
world-famous mathematician.
Are world-famous
mathematicians above the law?
This could lead to
a jail sentence for her.
Are you absolutely
certain you want to do this?
Yes.
Yes, I am.
My mother tore me away
from every person I ever loved.
But not anymore.
Even if it means going to war...
Against the 'great' Shakuntala Devi.
16777216...
So the first set is 216...
Then 716.
2 x 2 = 4
4 x 2 = 8
256?
- What did you say?
- Your cube root.
This?
This is an eight digit number.
And you're five years old!
Shakuntala!
How did you do it?
It just comes to me naturally!
Liar!
I'm not a liar!
Then explain how you did it!
I can't explain it.
I can only show you.
Can you only do cube roots,
or is there more up your sleeve?
Give me sweets and I'll tell you!
Forget sweets. I'll give you money.
You can buy anything with it.
Anything?
Yes!
Solve this.
Uncle! Aunty!
Look what Shakuntala did!
Oh Lord. What did she do now?
I was studying.
I was calculating the
cube root of an 8 digit number...
And she gave the answer in a flash!
It must have been a fluke...
No, really! See for yourself.
Solve this.
I won't do it for free!
Pay up.
Okay, take this.
And for the other one?
She's more mercenary
than the British empire!
Here. Solve it now.
512, which is also the cube of 8.
Now can I go buy my sweets?
Uncle, she's no ordinary girl.
She's a genius!
Genie what?
Ge-ni-us.
A brilliant mind
that's one in a million.
Shakuntala, you're late for school!
Shaku, you're late for school!
There she comes.
This tiny girl - she's
your mathematical genius?
So who's going to give
me math problems to solve?
Teachers can ask too.
Just a request.
Ask difficult questions...
Or she'll get bored.
So, Math genius...
I hope this question won't bore you?
What are you doing?
They come in my way.
- Is that okay?
- Yes.
Come on.
Shakuntala!
Father, I want to go to school too.
We are going, right?
3 pm, Naivediyam Public School.
Father, not for Maths shows.
To study like other kids.
What can a school teach you?
You'll end up teaching them.
Come, let's go.
Shakuntala, you need to practice.
Get inside.
I want to play with Sharda.
You're booked for
ten shows next week.
Why must you make your father angry?
Unlike you, I'm not scared of him!
Is that how you talk
about your father?
He isn't my father. I'm his father!
What are you saying?
What do fathers in other homes do?
They work, earn money
and run the household.
So who's the father
in this house then?
Shakuntala!
Yes, I'll get her.
Come along.
I won't.
Come on!
What goes around comes around.
Wait till your daughter
gives you a hard time!
Shaku, you aren't
afraid of anyone, right?
Mark my words.
You'll be a big man someday.
Why would I be a man?
Because there's no such
thing as a 'big woman'!
In that case,
I'll definitely be a big woman.
And you'll always be by my side!
"God-Promise"?
God-Promise!
Sharda!
Sharda, wake up!
Why didn't you take
Sharda to the hospital?
It would have cost a lot of money.
I do shows day and night.
Where did all the money go?
If we try to save the dying, we'll
have nothing left for the living.
Mother, I'm talking to you!
Have you lost your voice?
Why can't you speak
up in front of Father?
Shakuntala!
I'll never forgive
our mother, Sharda.
I promise you - one day,
I'll be a very big woman.
And I won't be like our mother ever.
God-promise.
Miss Shakuntala!
Here's your money for today's
performance. In advance.
Thanks.
You can leave now.
No, I'll stay.
No, carry on.
Take a rickshaw.
And buy vegetables on the way.
Don't be too late.
Hello.
Myself Shakuntala.
Who is having first question for me?
Arun, ask her a question!
No, you guys go ahead.
You cleared your CA exam
in three months, man! Shoot!
- No man...
- Come on!
Myself Arun.
Hello Arun. So what's your question?
I've been offered a
job at a British Company.
Congrats!
The joining date is in April.
I see.
But I can't decide whether
I should accept the job or not.
Why?
Well, their salary
structure is a bit strange.
On the first day,
they'll pay me one paisa.
On the second day, two paisas.
On the third day, four paisas.
And on the fourth day, eight paisas.
Basically, the pay
will be doubled every day.
What do you think...
Should I take up the job?
I don't know if you
listened carefully...
But Arun said he's
required to join in April...
And April has 30 days.
Wow, ma'am! You really are a genius.
You know that April has 30 days!
A round of applause for the lady!
Arun, since you're
joining a British Company
should I give you the
answer in Pounds or Rupees?
Rupees will do, I guess.
Okay.
So your salary would be...
I am correct?
Arun, is she right?
She is!
So Arun, which company is this?
Can ladies apply too?
They looked like
they had seen a ghost.
Is it so weird to see
a woman solve math problems?
Well, women here usually only
solve household problems. Right?
That requires Maths too!
No one can win against you, my love!
Did you tell your mother about us?
My love, we're going to
Alam's estate to hunt pheasants.
I'll talk to her
as soon as we're back.
I've been hearing
this for a year now.
"I'll tell her after my
sister's engagement..."
"After my grandmother's
death anniversary..."
"As soon as my father's
back from Madras..."
It's getting late. Let me
drop you home. Okay?
I'll be right back
with the car keys...
My love.
Ms. Sukanya Gowthami
weds Mr. Dheeraj Murthy
Congratulations.
My love, marriage in India
is like a deal fixed by our parents.
My love, nothing's
going to change between us!
Firstly, stop this 'my
love' nonsense of yours!
Shakuntala...
My father went ahead and fixed
me a match from within our caste.
They're a family
of money and repute.
I make money too, Dheeraj.
Exactly! You're very independent.
I come from an ordinary family,
Shakuntala...
And you aren't ordinary in any way.
Yeah Dheeraj, I'm not ordinary.
You know what an ordinary
girl would do in my place?
My love!
Lady! Care for some flowers?
Come...
This is Shakuntala Devi,
from Bangalore.
Hello.
Please sit.
Would you like some pilaf?
Just tea, please.
Okay.
Crumbling outside, bustling inside.
Welcome to Tarabai's guesthouse!
Thank you.
Ms. Shakuntala, don't mind...
But we've never seen
any single ladies here before.
Why?
What about me?
She's come here to build her future,
just like you.
Right?
Actually... I've come here
to escape from my past.
What's so dark about your past?
I shot a man.
Why aren't you in jail, then?
He didn't die.
Only one ear got blown off.
It bled quite a bit though.
What happened?
Please eat!
Come on, guys!
Shakuntala's obviously joking.
She's joking!
I was going to start sleeping
with a stick at night!
Tarabai, I scared your houseguests
right on arrival, didn't I!
A girl who follows her heart
and laughs with abandon...
What could be more
scary to men?
I swear.
I've never understood this disparity
between men and women!
That's why you're so special!
You managed to escape the
Dheeraj incident and get here.
But how will you
pay next month's rent?
I have my Maths!
A Math show, did you say, love?
Yes!
People are giving
me difficult sums...
And I am giving them
answers quickly-quickly!
Why do you think people
will part with their good money...
To see something stupid like that?
I can't possibly allow my girls
who come from all over the world...
To be exposed to this mumbo-jumbo!
An Indian woman
in a sari and pigtails
doing mathematical
sums on stage is a joke!
Sir. Joke also - Indian
man in loincloth with a stick.
But he won!
There you are.
All yours.
That's astonishing.
How did you do that?
I'm correct?
Indeed you are!
Thank you.
Is audience having
any more question for me?
Great stuff with the mathematics...
But we're going to need a translator
for this fresh-off-the-boat English!
Excuse me.
That was...
Did they teach you some special
mental-math technique at University?
I'm never going to any school.
Then how University?
You didn't go to school?
I'm having no childhood only...
I'm Javier, by the way.
'Havee', means?
J-A-V-I-E-R. Javier.
What happened to J?
The J is silent.
See! Alphabets, so much confusion.
Numbers, no confusion!
What you see is what you getting.
What you're getting is a cold.
Yes.
Because, it's 'Hanuary', no?
The J is silent!
Would you care for
a hot English cup of tea?
Sure!
Three spoons of sugar!
Otherwise your English Chai
is not having any taste only.
I'm not English.
I'm from Spain originally.
Oh I see!
All you white guys look the same!
Shakuntala, what is it that
you love about being on stage?
People's faces, when they see
a girl in chotis doing maths.
Choti?
Plaits!
Oh!
So many years people are singing,
dancing, doing drama, circus on stage.
Then why I cannot do Maths on stage?
Shakuntala, then allow me to take
your Math performance to the next level!
Next level?
You mean third floor?
The world needs to see you,
Shakuntala.
But it would require what one
would call a bit of a... makeover?
But I have one condition...
Mr 'Javier With J Silent'.
Means...
my Saree isn't going anywhere.
God-Promise.
What?
Means, if you are
breaking this promise...
I will lose all my talent.
That's pretty dramatic.
We Indians are like that only.
Drama or nothing!
"Betty Botter bought
a bit of butter..."
"But the butter Betty Botter bought was
a bit bitter and made her batter bitter."
"Crazy Camels, Calm Camels,
the Camel Clans Clashed!"
I thought I was the teacher here.
Teaching means learning everyday,
J-Silent.
Okay, you go first.
"Betty Botter bought
a bit of butter..."
"But the butter Betty Botter bought was
a bit bitter and made her batter bitter."
Now you!
Donning butterfly wings
To the west the easterlies blow
Washing over this Spring
Is an all new glow
Save the heart from the evil eye
With all the joy it's taken in
I dream in English now
Life's made a new beginning
This story's taken a turn
I do what the heart yearns
Never mind the English Queen
It's Queen India reigning supreme!
This story's taken a turn
I do what the heart yearns
Never mind the English Queen
It's Queen India reigning supreme!
Now say, Mrs. Astrid Moore
asks you to multiply
Take the first digit, which is 8
And multiply it by 8+1 which is...
Nine!
Multiply 8 X 9, which is
Take the two 5's from the
units place and multiply them.
5 X 5 is...
Put the two together
and what's your answer?
How are you?
Jolly good. How about you?
I'm a bit poorly.
Oh blimey!
Let me get you a cup of tea!
Ah, that's so awfully kind of you!
Thank you!
Now onto the next trick.
May I request His Excellency,
the Spanish Ambassador
to tell us his favourite year?
That would be 1935, Senorita.
And favourite date in a month?
Let's see... the 14th!
Okay.
Now I am going to tell you
on which days of the week
the 14th of each
month occurred in 1935.
Please check!
Beginning with January...
- Am I correct?
- Si Si perfecto, Senora!
Gracias!
This story's taken a turn
I do what the heart yearns
Never mind the English Queen
It's Queen India reigning supreme!
Tarabai! I got five more shows!.
I'll pay this month's
rent in advance!
Look who's rolling in riches!
There's a letter for you from home.
Dear Shakuntala...
It's been six months
since you left for London...
And you haven't
sent a penny home yet.
You know your father's temper...
So I'm writing this
letter with Srinivas' help.
Don't you have any responsibility
towards your family?
Sharda's no more,
but we're still here.
They treat me like a bank,
not a daughter!
Didn't even ask once,
'Shaku, how are you?'
That doesn't mean
they don't love you!
They've never asked, Tarabai!
And from now on, I won't ask either.
Wait, Shakuntala!
Mother, you needn't
write to me again.
You will get your money every month.
Dear friends across the airwaves...
Let's see if ShakuntalaDevi
makes India proud next!
shall compete against the fastest
computer on London's top TV channel!
After the great Aryabhatt
and Ramanujan...
Let's see if Shakuntala
Devi makes India proud next!
Stay calm...
Speak clearly...
Don't get nervous.
J-Silent, be silent.
My numbers never let me down.
Shakuntala...
There is something
I need to tell you.
"Crazy Camels, Calm Camels..."
"The Camel Clans Clashed!"
That's right!
Not bad Ms. Devi, not bad at all.
Now Ms. Devi,could you
give us the cube root of
923. Am I correct?
Ms. Devi, I think we are ready
to take this to the next level!
You mean third floor?
I'm sorry?
It would be my absolute pleasure.
Ms. Devi, are you able
to give us the cube root of
Come on, Ms. Devi.
All of India is looking
at you with bated breath.
I'm afraid this question is wrong.
Are you suggesting the
computer is wrong, Ms. Devi?
The computer has already
given its answer.
The question is not wrong.
I could show you where
the computer went wrong.
Thanks to Lord Ganesha,
my answers are never wrong.
This isn't the Great
Indian Rope Trick, Ms. Devi.
Though you do look like
you're at the end of your rope.
No, the computer has made a mistake.
Actually, three mistakes...
You know, I was quite excited
that a lady mathematician
from the land of snake
charmers and elephants
could somehow beat the computer.
But not everyone can
be Einstein, can they?
All I'm asking you is to check the last
three digits of the number please...
Unfortunately, that's all
we have time for today.
No, can you-
- Goodnight and see you next week!
- Can you please check it once?
He's right, isn't he?
Humans make mistakes,
computers don't. Right?
But I can't be wrong!
Why? Aren't you human?
The entire country
had its eyes on me.
Everyone's laughing at me, Tarabai.
Shakuntala! Shakuntala.
Someone's here to see you,
come down quick!
I don't want to meet anyone.
Just come! And wash your face.
Enough of this crying!
Come on quickly.
Good morning.
Is this any time to
show me your silly grin?
The TV has been flooded
with calls from people
asking them to re-check
the question last night!
I made a few calls myself!
Had gin early in the morning?
The people got experts
to do the calculations manually...
And you were right!
The computer made a rounding error.
That's exactly that I
was trying to tell that idiot...
That the last three digits
of that number were jumbled up!
Darling you're speaking
in Hindi again!
The number they gave me was
And he said the answer is 166917.
But when any number ending in 7 is
multiplied by itself three times...
The answer has to end in 3!
So the cube of 166917
has to end in 3!
So the correct question
would have been
I was correct.
The computer was wrong!
And that's why they named
you the Human Computer!
Huh?
God-promise!
You're all over the papers. Look.
Shakuntala...
My Human Computer.
The world is calling.
Are you ready?
Are you done?
- Done.
- Okay.
So do you want me to
give you the answer
from left to right or right to left?
I'll give it to you from
right to left. Please take it down?
The answer is...
Am I correct?
Absolutely correct!
Sari-clad calculating prodigy
confounds Maths experts
The Indian Human Computer
wows Europe
Devi in Demand: Makes
Maths Entertaining
Human Computer knows how
to convert her Maths into Money!
Shakuntala Devi: A True
Rags-to-Riches story
Shelly!
Shakuntala!
Tarabai!
Welcome to Shakuntala's palace!
British house, British clothes!
But I still only wear
sarees at my shows, Tarabai!
So how many cities did
you tour last month, Shakuntala?
Thirteen, my dear Gordanbhai!
Goodness!
I haven't seen thirteen
cities in my entire lifetime!
Why, Tarabai!
We're humans, not trees.
We have legs, not roots.
Tell me why?
Why?
So we can roam the world!
Shakuntala...
J-Silent... Hi!
Can we talk?
What do you mean,
you're going back to Spain?
You always knew this day would come.
I also know I'm
going to die someday.
Doesn't mean I'm okay with it.
You are rich and famous!
You don't need me, Shakuntala.
Why do men always
want women to need them?
Shakuntala, I'm sorry...
Javier With J Silent...
I'm sorry that my love
isn't enough for you.
Go.
Find someone who needs you.
Go!
Look Sharda, I've become
such a big woman.
But you're still the one I talk to
in the middle of the night.
Cheers!
I'll talk to her.
- No.
- Yeah, let me talk to her!
- No!
- Let's end this daily soap opera.
Let's just finish it off and-
No, no Ajay!
- No. Please, no!
- Why not?
You know I don't
want to talk to her!
- Okay fine, but I can-
- Ajay, no.
Why not?
Sorry sir! It took a while
to get the keys from office.
Please come.
They told me in the office that
you're Shakuntala Devi's daughter.
You're so lucky...
Your mother's such a genius!
I was ten years old when
she visited our school...
She changed my life.
I was a duffer in class,
and I became a topper!
Your Maths must be very good too.
Right, ma'am?
I hate Maths.
Okay, there are two bedrooms here.
You can build more rooms upstairs,
if you plan to have kids in the future.
We're never having kids.
Sorry, sir.
We're not buying this
house for ourselves.
Anu's business,
I mean our business ...
We buy such houses,
refurbish them...
We decorate and resell them.
I see! So different
from Shakuntala Devi, no?
Yes, I'm nothing
like Shakuntala Devi...
And I'm buying this house,
not Shakuntala Devi.
I hate Maths and I don't want
to ever be a mother.
Will you still sell us this house
or should we call another broker?
Ajay...
Didn't I tell you before marriage...
That you don't want kids.
And I respect that.
But why did you get
mad at that poor guy?
I'm tired, Ajay.
Everyone just sees me
as Shakuntala Devi's daughter.
But I only see you!
I know my dreams aren't big...
But they're your own!
Own it!
Exactly.
Exactly!
I don't want to be a genius.
Don't be one!
I don't want to conquer the world.
We won't.
I don't want to be on the covers
of top magazines.
- Or be on TV.
- Then don't!
Aunty, please have this.
Ma, have this. I've made it.
Sure, I believe you.
Such a cutie-pie he is!
Do you know...
Before he was born,
we had a puppy too.
I was always away,
thanks to my posting.
So the puppy gave her
company as well as practice.
Practice for what?
Taking care of babies!
Ajay. I need to get
the lasagna out of the oven.
Can you come help?
Excuse me.
Nice smell!
What?
That's the oven bell ringing,
not my biological clock!
So don't get too excited!
What are you talking about?
Did you think Dennis will
awaken my maternal instincts?
I'll suddenly turn
into Mother India?
If this was so important to you,
why did you marry me?
It was just a gift!
I wanted to see a smile
on your face, that's it!
Then why did your
mom mention a baby?
Why don't you go ask her?
My mother doesn't
represent me, okay?
And till you keep obsessing
about your mother...
Things will never
work out between us!
Plan to serve lasagna,
or a divorce notice?
How will it work
if we both overreact?
Sorry?
Marriage means always
having to say you're sorry.
I must be the world's
biggest fool in love.
You're the second biggest.
Who's Number One, then?
Sir. Shakuntala Ma'am
sent this for you.
Help, help! I'm dying of boredom.
Shakuntala!
I've been waiting
for you for so long!
Who's this?
Dushyant!
Shakuntala's lover across lifetimes!
Yes, but only in India, okay?
I have different lovers
in different countries.
How many countries?
Well, my goal is 150 lovers
across 150 countries.
I haven't found
anyone in Iceland yet.
Do you know anyone there?
Ms. Devi, we must get going.
Excuse us.
- Good day.
- Good day, Ms. Devi.
150 countries. Good Lord!
Hello, Dushyant!
Paritosh Banerji. IAS. Hi.
So you're a Bureaucratic Superhero?
You have to be a superhero
when you work for the government.
Then prove it and rescue me
From this boring party.
O my darlin'
On this dreamy night
With the stars so bright
It's time to shine and dazzle
Shine and dazzle, oh yes!
Why yes..
Let's soak in the rain
Whispering sweet nothings
Dance?
Let's shine and dazzle
Shine and dazzle, oh yes!
Why yes...
Let's soak in the rain
Tiptoe over to me
Your lover's waiting eagerly
You know what?
I was going to cancel this trip.
Are you afraid of flying?
I hate being out of Calcutta
even for four days.
And I hate being in any city
for more than four days!
- We are doomed.
- Opposites attract!
Let's write upon the skies
This tale of yours and mine
How two hearts meet
And melt in a love so sweet, oh yes!
Why yes...
Tiptoe over to me
I have a confession to make.
My track record is sketchy.
I'm divorced.
Congratulations.
If you weren't divorced,
you wouldn't be here!
Why yes..
Let's soak in the rain
Whispering sweet nothings
Let's shine and dazzle
Shine and dazzle, oh yes!
Why yes...
Let's soak in the rain
I'll miss you a lot.
And what if I said
you won't have to miss me?
What do you mean?
Let's go. I'll come along with you.
Let me see what Calcutta has,
that you are unable to leave.
And what if I don't
let you leave Calcutta?
This is the finest
house in Ballygunge.
This street's called Party Street.
In Calcutta, 'party' can also mean
political party!
You know, the number
of this house is 720.
Which is 1 x 2 x 3 x 4 x 5 x 6
As well as 8 x 9 x 10.
Poor 7 got left out.
Wow. And whose house is this?
Mine!
As in?
I bought it.
- When?
- Last evening.
Have you gone crazy?
I liked it, so I bought it.
Besides...
You'll be happier here than
in your dreary official residence.
Are you proposing to me?
I want a baby with an intelligent
and good-looking man, after all!
Never thought I'd hear
that word from your mouth.
Why, it's such a simple word!
B-A-B-Y, baby.
You can't settle in one place...
You're out to conquer
the world, and...
And a mother can't do that?
You can do anything you want.
So, tell me...
When do I bring the
wedding procession?
I asked for a baby.
Not a husband!
Shakuntala.
My parents...
Are against our relationship.
I don't care. Do you?
I want to meet your parents.
I want their blessings.
Take a left from ahead.
You'll cross some cows
and buffaloes on the way.
You'll see my mother
doing all the housework...
And my father will be there too...
Reading the newspaper
sitting on his ancient chair.
Won't you come along?
You wanted their blessings, not me.
Forgive them, Shakuntala.
Maybe love will prevail over duty?
I can't forgive them.
I had no expectations
from my father anyway.
Whoever was of no use
to him, didn't exist.
But my mother ...
She just stood there like a statue.
Helpless.
Weak. Mute.
She never spoke up for herself...
She could have at least opened her
mouth to save her daughter from death.
I wanted to do this in
front of your parents, but...
Shakuntala, I love you very much.
Marry me, please?
Isn't the diamond a bit
small for a wedding ring?
It's perfect for me.
That's because you've become
used to settling for less.
After 200 calls, I thought
you called me here to say sorry.
I called you to know why
despite being my daughter...
How can marriage be
your only ambition, Anu!
My only ambition is
to not become like you.
I know how successful
and famous you are.
You never stop reminding me, do you?
At least take a look, Anu...
Compliments from the chef.
Shakuntala Maam, it's an
absolute honour to serve you.
How sweet.
When today's generation recognizes me,
I feel I've done something right.
And if you don't
she takes out her 'Black-Book'
to show you how famous she is.
Ignore her.
Thank you.
- Just see it once, Anu...
- Stop it Ma.
I'm tired of being
on this rollercoaster!
I'm tired of being your daughter.
This is that boy speaking, not you.
You've lost your identity, Anu!
Just divorce him, I say!
Come home with me.
All my properties, shares, money...
it's all for you, isn't it?
I don't need you or your money.
Anu!
Actually Ma, I'm divorcing you.
How can anyone divorce their mother!
Why... Didn't you?
You'll understand
when you have a daughter.
Because of you,
I never want to be a mother.
That's what happens.
Sometimes when you're least
expecting it, you're expecting.
That's what we call
the miracle of life.
It's been 8 weeks. Congratulations.
Anu, you're going to be a mom.
Anu!
Look, I won't lie.
Today's the happiest day of my life.
A child is a responsibility
of a lifetime.
I know.
Everyone handles it. We can too!
Not everyone can handle it, Ajay.
Just for once, forget all
your baggage and your parents.
Listen to your heart.
How do you feel?
I feel... thrilled.
I feel so happy that...
it scares me.
Yes!
Sorry, we're having a baby.
If it's a girl, we'll call
her Amritha. Amrit if it's a boy.
You're making a scene!
We're making a family!
My baby!
Our baby.
I'm the one with
3 inch long stitches.
But sure, 'our baby'.
Okay fine, your baby.
What happened, Shakuntala?
Is Anu okay?
Yes.
What's the matter?
Paritosh, I'm not just a mother.
I'm still me.
As in?
When I recite rhymes to Anu,
my mind buzzes with numbers.
When she hears the rattle and claps
I miss the applause of my audience.
When I look at the verandah,
it reminds me of my stage.
Why aren't you on stage, then?
What about Anu?
Anu has two parents, Shakuntala.
You mean I can do my shows?
Since when did you start
asking for permission?
Outside India too?
If you lose a part of yourself
we'll lose a part of us, right?
Okay.
Okay!
The problem got solved so easily!
And I was expecting fireworks.
We can still have fireworks.
Shakuntala, you're getting late.
Give her to me.
It's time for your flight.
Go now.
When I told my manager that I wanted
to start doing my math shows again
he was shocked.
He said, 'But ma'am,
you've just had a baby!'
I said, 'Why?'
'Have I turned into
a different person?'
Do women lose their brains
after becoming mothers?
So today, shall we see if this new
mother's brain is still working or not?
Can I have the questions please?
Ms. Devi, the questions
from the audience.
The first question...
Thank you.
How are you doing it?
How?
Ma Genius: Ready
to conquer the world
That took 50 seconds.
The computer is
still calculating.
There it is. The computer
got it in 62 seconds.
She's right!
Ms. Devi calculated the
23rd root of a 201 digit number
Faster than the fastest computer,
the UNIVAC!
Thank you.
Ms. Devi, how?
How do you do it?
How!
Shakuntala Devi's magic spreads
across the world! What's her secret?
Are you ready?
Okay, the answer is...
Am I correct?
That's absolutely correct.
Thank you.
This is the largest mental
multiplication ever done
In record time by a human being!
I think Ms. Devi just made it to
the Guinness Book of World Records!
How do you do it Ms. Devi?
The question on everyone's mind:
How does she do it?
What is the cube root of
Correct!
So, did you find out how I do it?
Ms. Devi, your rather
unexceptional reaction times
on a battery of elementary
cognitive tasks.
which were compared with the
mean RTs of adults on the same tests
Contrasts so markedly with your
amazing speed of performing
huge arithmetic calculations
as to indicate that
your skill with numbers
must depend largely on the
automatic encoding and retrieval
of a wealth of declarative and procedural
information in long term memory
rather than on any
unusual basic capacities.
English please.
After all the tests...
We cannot really explain
how exactly you do it, Ms. Devi.
How could those English
scientists know...
It's impossible to decipher
the great Shakuntala Devi.
Exactly!
So, what's my daughter up to?
Your daughter just spoke
her first word... Daddy!
Daddy...
Remember those musical shoes
you got her from the States?
She runs around the house in them,
chanting "Daddy, Daddy!"
Hello?
Hello.
Hello, I can't hear you.
Hello?
I don't understand.
Why can't the three of
us travel the world together?
I belong here, in Calcutta.
I thought we belonged together.
What will I do there?
You'll be busy with your shows!
And I'm not your stepney.
If you were a world
famous mathematician
doing shows worldwide...
Not just you,
the whole world would expect me
to pack my bags and
string along with you.
I've always supported
you and your career!
Thanks!
I've taken care of Anu
when you haven't been around!
Wow. You deserve a Nobel prize for
taking care of your own daughter!
Like you get prizes for
abandoning your daughter?
This.
This is what you really are!
You're just like all the other men!
What are you doing!
Have you gone crazy?
Paritosh.
Maths is everything to me.
But Anu's even more
important than Maths.
I'm sorry.
I said those things in anger.
If you don't want to
come with me...
That's your choice.
But Anu will stay with me now.
She'll go wherever I go.
She's a child, Shakuntala...
Not a suitcase to
be dragged city to city.
I can't stay without
my daughter anymore.
I can't stay without her either!
I gave birth to her.
I have three inch
long stitches on me.
I have more right on her.
Just giving birth doesn't
make one a mother, Shakuntala.
I'll be the world's best mother!
Shakuntala!
Dear Dad.
London is nothing like the
descriptions in storybooks.
There are just two
kinds of weather here.
Rain and winter.
I want to come to Calcutta.
I wait for your letter everyday.
I miss you a lot, Dad.
The world needs to
discover Vedic Maths.
Just like my daughter Anu has.
Say Hello, Anu.
This is Edward.
- Hello.
- Hi. Hello.
Go on, Edward. Ask her a question!
Oh. That won't be necessary.
No, I insist.
Ask her!
What's 409 square?
Correct!
How did she do that?
Tell him, sweetie.
So the first two digits of the
answer will be the first digit.
4 square, which is 16.
And the last two digits of the
answer will be the last digit.
9 square, which is 81.
And the middle two digits are two
times of the first and last number.
That's 2x4x9. Which is 72.
So the answer is 167281.
Very good!
I got a three-book deal,
only because of you.
Thank you!
Please post this to Dad.
What's this?
A letter for him.
Don't forget.
Don't forget!
Yes ma'am.
Shall we go to the park?
My mind wants to go to the park.
But my instinct says...
Sorry, Anu.
Sorry!
Dear Dad.
Apart from being a
world-famous Mathematician...
Ma's now become a
world-famous Astrologer too.
She says she has both the intellect for
Maths and the instinct for Astrology.
I think Ma's become very rich.
Ma says you don't have
the time to call or write to me.
Is that true, Dad?
I'll be back in three months,
you can take an appointment then.
Most definitely!
It's all Lord Ganesha's blessing!
I'll take your leave.
Goodbye.
Goodbye!
What a day, Anu.
25 appointments!
What questions did Uncle have?
Everyone has only two questions.
Will I get money? Will I get love?
But I have another question.
What?
Will I get my father?
I have a question too.
What do you think of my poster?
'Erase Poverty' isn't
just an empty slogan for me.
I've erased poverty
from my own life.
Please give me your precious vote...
I'll remove poverty
and unemployment...
Dear Dad.
Ma isn't just a mathematician
and astrologer now...
She's become a politician too.
Everyone says that
she's the only one
Who can defeat Indira
Gandhi in these elections.
The results will be out today.
Ma... Back so soon?
Anu...
Turn off the TV, please.
Yes, Ma.
Here.
What's this?
Are the results out?
Did you lose?
Absolutely not.
I never lose, Anu.
Always remember that.
Come on, let's pack our bags.
I've booked 10 maths shows.
10 cities. Bombay, Nagpur,
Poona, Hyderabad, Vijayawada.
I need five numbers.
Each one of you will
give me one number.
Let's begin!
Now I'm going to make a
'Magic Square' with these 5 digits.
Add up any row or column
and you'll get the same answer.
Want to see how?
What's the answer?
Dear Dad, I go to so
many schools with Ma.
But I want to go to my own school.
In one place.
I don't want to travel the world.
Please do something, Dad.
Anu?
Please?
Cheers!
Cheers.
So?
All the way from Calcutta to Bombay.
How come?
How's my daughter?
She's happy.
I really enjoy reading her letters.
You didn't give her
any of my letters, did you?
She wouldn't be able
to handle it, Paritosh.
Between two continents
and two parents...
She'd be torn.
And confused.
I've heard it many times.
Shakuntala, please put her
in a proper school now.
Please.
'Proper' schools kill
creativity in children.
Besides, Anu travels the world!
She meets intellectuals
from various countries.
It's the best kind of education.
You're doing this for yourself,
not for Anu.
You want Anu to be
with you all the time.
Yes, I do. Why not?
She's my daughter.
I have every right on her.
Anu's your daughter.
You don't own her.
Children can claim their parents
for the rest of their lives...
But parents can't claim
their children forever.
That's the universal rule of life.
I don't believe in
such pathetic rules.
You're behaving exactly
like your father.
You're stealing Anu's childhood
just like he stole yours.
How dare you compare me to that man!
I'm nothing like him.
Shakuntala, put Anu in a proper
school this academic year, or else...
I'll have to go to
court for her custody.
Not joint..
but full custody.
You know, for a while I felt
like we still stood a chance, but...
You don't need me, Shakuntala.
I don't need you, Paritosh.
I love...
Loved you.
I can't be a nomad like you.
And I can't be a tree like you.
From Shimla to the Nilgiri Hills...
Here are the brochures for
India's best boarding schools.
Choose.
- I don't get this.
- What? This is so easy!
Surprise!
Hello girls!
Aren't these skirts a bit too long?
Get a scissor and snip them!
Anu, my baby...
I missed you!
Come on, give me a hug!
Summer holidays start in 4 days.
I know. But I managed
to coax your principal.
We're going to Nairobi tomorrow,
then Cape Town, Toronto, Paris...
Lucky Anu!
I spend summer holidays on my sofa,
in KPBB mode.
What's 'KPBB'?
'Keep Pigging-out
and Become a Buffalo!'
CAJGBPQ!
What's that?
C'mon And Just Get
a Bag Packed Quick!
Okay, bye girls!
Dear Dad.
It's been ten years since I saw you.
I want to come to Calcutta
for at least one summer holiday.
- My sister Sharda...
- I'm tired of this Shakuntala Devi World Tour.
We were so poor that we couldn't
afford to take her to a doctor.
Since then, I've tried
to fulfill both our dreams.
That is so inspiring. So inspiring!
Now let's talk about
this book launch.
Sure!
You've taken on quite a
brave and controversial topic...
Don't be scared to say
the title of the book loudly!
The World of Homosexuals.
I believe love is love.
Who we choose to love
is our personal matter.
Given that you aren't
homo...sexual...
How did you write this book?
Well I haven't killed
anyone either...
But I've written a book
called 'Perfect Murder'!
Actually I got interested
in homosexuality because...
My ex-husband was a homosexual.
I'm so sorry to hear that.
Are you okay?
No, you should not be sorry.
It is his choice and I support him.
You are incredibly amazing.
So amazing!
Thank you.
Anu.
Anu!
Anu, stop!
What is this behaviour, Anu!
"My father was a lion-tamer,
he didn't give me food..."
"He forced me to do shows..."
"Poor me! Poor me!"
And now you're after my Dad!
How can you lie through
your teeth like this?
Anu, that...
Anu!
Look at the larger picture!
I want to change people's
attitudes towards homosexuality.
Personal stories
affect people the most.
If you want to sell something, you
need to weave a story around it...
A fake story?
That too about my father?
Why can't you be normal
like other moms?
Why should I be normal
when I can be amazing?
Can we go home and talk, please?
Which home? Ritz or Claridges?
Everyday it's a new hotel room..
I don't know how
it feels to have a home.
Just like I don't know
what it's like to have a mother!
If only you loved me half
as much as you love Maths...
I want to live with Dad!
But your father doesn't
want to live with you.
When he finds out about the
rumours you spread about him...
Then he'll want me to stay with him!
Dad! You came from Calcutta!
I'm becoming a grandfather,
after all...
Oh God!
Easy, easy!
- How are you?
- I'm fine.
She called you a homosexual.
So?
Nothing wrong with
being a homosexual, right?
According to her,
your entire life is a lie.
You know I don't care
about all these things.
But I do!
I hate that people think
you're living a double-life.
If there's one thing I've
learnt from your mother...
It's that life's too short
to care about what others think.
If you love her so much,
why did you divorce her?
To love Shakuntala is to let her be.
She's like a storm.
And to fight a storm is foolishness.
So you got all philosophical
and stepped aside.
I didn't have a choice, Anu.
Ma didn't hold a gun
to your head, Dad!
You chose to let me go!
I don't have it in me
to fight your mother.
You don't have the
courage to fight Ma...
But I do!
Anu!
Talk to her, man.
Uncle it's okay,
you know how she is...
My water broke!
What?
Anu!
Call the doctor now!
Ma!
House number 689.
Guess why this number is special?
All numbers are special to you, Ma.
Because 689 remains 689,
even upside down.
Fascinating.
Angry young woman!
You know, Hyde Park
is just 5 minutes from here!
Great. People living here
can go there for a walk everyday.
I've bought this house
for both of us, Anu.
Let's do lazy Sundays.
Let's do 'KPBB'!
What about your Math shows?
I'm taking a break for a while.
I want to be your full-time mom.
And you can speak to your Dad too,
if you like.
No!
Okay, give me the keys!
Give me the keys!
Here, here!
Ma, three floors!
Happy?
Ma, can I redecorate
this house on my own?
You're just 16!
You haven't studied or
trained in interior design.
How will you do it, Anu?
Did you ever do a Maths course?
Correct.
Please, Ma?
I've admired other people's homes
since I was a kid.
I want to build my own home.
Okay, let's build our home then!
Let me capture you
Right here in my smile
Lest I lose you again
O my prized one
Let me hide you
Away from prying eyes
Like a reflection,
I emerged from you
Why can't I be all you need?
You're like a puzzle
I've always tried to solve
Just be my mom
For once and for all?
You're like a puzzle
I've always tried to solve
Just be my mom
For once and for all?
Look, Anu.
There's a pattern in these branches.
So that every leaf
gets its share of sunlight.
Snowflakes have
similar patterns too.
Nature's the greatest mathematician.
Ma... No!
Sorry, sorry...
No maths.
Sometimes my very own
Sometimes a stranger unknown
You leave me so perplexed
If only for a moment,
I could banish this world
All my heart wants
Is to feel your caresses
As you untangle my tresses
Until I drift to sleep
Where else would you want to be?
Don't leave me alone
To stumble and fall
Just be my mom
For once and for all?
You're like a puzzle
I've always tried to solve
Just be my mom
For once and for all?
Why are you dragging me, Anu?
- We just bought a house!
- Ma, ma...
This house was built in 1858.
I want to buy and
refurbish it completely.
And then we'll rent it out.
The profits from rent can go
into buying the next property...
The rent will increase every year
and we'll easily recover the cost.
And we'll add to our properties too.
In whose name shall
I make the cheque?
Ma, it's a huge amount.
400,000 pounds.
No amount is too much to
see this twinkle in your eyes!
When did my little baby grow so big?
No...
Sleep, sleep...
Aw, baby...
Hush, hush...
Anu...
What happened, sweetheart?
I can't even put
my daughter to sleep!
It's your first baby!
Give yourself some time.
It's been so long.
Maybe I just don't
have that instinct.
I'm a really bad mother.
Can I tell you a secret?
Every mother is a 'bad mother'.
If she loves her kids too much,
she spoils them.
If she doesn't love them enough,
she still spoils them.
The perfect mother doesn't exist!
Something serious...
My girl!
Were you two gossiping about me?
You're not that important.
I was just telling Anu...
That however she is,
she's a perfect mother.
That's right.
The first time I saw her...
I knew she'd be the perfect mother.
When you first met me, you
thought I had the perfect mother.
And that!
They said, "How do you do it?"
"Ms. Devi!"
Hello.
Hello, ma'am.
How do you do it?
So many Hellos.
Not letting me finish the story...
Good evening, Shakuntala Devi Ma'am!
Big fan.
I'm Ajay Abhaya Kumar.
Nice to meet you.
By the way, did you want
to meet me or my daughter?
Well I'd have to impress you
first to stand a chance with her!
We go back a long way.
- Really?
- Yes.
When I was little, my Dad took
me on his scooter every Sunday
to meet my grandparents.
And did I know your grandparents?
No, hear me out.
- That house of yours in Bangalore...
- Yes.
It used to come en route.
Whenever we crossed it,
Dad would say:
"Do you know who lives here?"
"The great Shakuntala Devi!"
He would tell me:
"Shakuntala Devi is from Bangalore."
"And so are you."
"The only difference is, she's always
out of the country thanks to Maths..."
"And you're always out of class!"
So? Did your Maths improve?
No.
I thought, India's already produced
this century's biggest Math Genius...
Why should I even bother?
Ajay Abhaya Kumar...
I have an instinct.
Your destiny's about to change.
You're going to hit the jackpot!
Thank you, ma'am.
Since an astrologer like you is
saying it, I accept my fate humbly.
Maybe I should buy a
lottery ticket on my way back?
Your glasses are empty.
Please allow me to refill them.
Good idea!
Thank you.
No problem!
Ajay Abhay Kumar...
I should find out more about him.
Why? Plan on marrying him?
Yes. To you!
My instinct says, this boy will be
my son-in-law some day.
No, no, no!
Ajay comes from
a very normal family.
So I need all of
us to act normal too.
We promise you, Anu.
We'll be so normal that
they won't even notice us.
They'll be amazed
at how normal we are.
I really love Ajay.
When I'm with him, I feel complete.
Like I've found my soulmate.
Please don't mess this up today.
Don't worry.
Everything will be fine.
And even if it isn't,
just have a baby with Ajay...
Because he's so intelligent
and good looking!
Shakuntala!
Ma! Is this your idea of normal?
Anu is a really normal girl!
She was very normal at studies.
Her career is super normal too!
You must try her cakes someday.
They're deliciously normal!
Correct!
Saying 'normal' every few seconds isn't
really normal behaviour, you know...
The weather's so hot, right?
What's the cricket match score?
There's no cricket match today.
Your saree looks so pretty!
So much corruption
these days, right?
- Very bad...
- Very bad.
Why are we discussing all this...
Isn't that what normal people
talk about?
Thank God you aren't normal.
Where else would we find
such entertaining in-laws!
Have some sweets.
I made them myself.
Really?
I ordered them from
Sri Krishna Sweets.
I was also just
pretending to be normal!
I can't breathe...
But you look classy!
Come come...
There are lots of options!
Aunty, I don't really
wear formals...
This will look good on you!
Pandy!
Ma'am.
Look.
Now he looks like
Shakuntala Devi's son-in-law!
Correct!
Pandy, here is my credit card.
We're going to shop a lot.
Aunty, please don't.
Please return the card.
No... Why?
Pandy!
Sorry, Sir.
- Ajay!
- Aunty what are you doing!
Please don't...
It's a gift from me, keep it!
I've never told you,
but I'm very rich.
I just pretend to be middle-class!
But Aunty, I really am middle-class.
Well, once you move to
London with me after marriage...
You won't remain
middle-class anymore.
And I will take your
business to new heights.
Wait and watch!
But I'm not shifting to London.
Oh! But long distance
marriage is really difficult.
Take it from me!
But Anu's moving
to Bangalore, right?
Anu's life is in London with me.
But she'll be with
me after marriage.
I can't live without Anu.
But it's normal, Aunty.
You can't jail your
daughter like this.
'Normal'?
When a boy's mother expects
her daughter-in-law to
live with her, it's 'normal'.
But if a girl's mother expects
her son-in-law to live with her,
she's jailing her?
What logic is that, I say!
- Aunty I'm sorry, I didn't mean that...
- What did you mean?
Anu won't live with
you or my parents.
We've decided to live in
our own house after marriage.
Anu will never leave
me and go to Bangalore.
Why don't you ask her once...
What she really wants?
Aunty, she loves me...
And I love her more than anything!
Anyone.
You love her more than anyone?
What have you done for her?
Have you got this?
You're not the world's
only mother to have a C-section!
He wants to snatch
you away from me, Anu!
Moving with him is my own decision!
But I've planned our
whole life ahead, Anu!
And who gave you the
right to plan my life?
I have dreams of my own too!
And what about my dreams?
You made me give up
my shows, astrology...
I gave up Maths for you!
I lost everything
so I could have you, Anu!
I'm so sorry!
You deserve the Nobel prize
for looking after your daughter!
Sorry. Sorry Anu.
Anu...
So...
What about your business in London?
I can run it from here.
If you leave me for that boy...
You can say goodbye
to your business too.
You already separated me from Dad...
I won't let you
take my love away now!
And if that means
losing the business
I built with my own hard work...
So be it!
That fellow is feeding you rubbish,
I'm telling you Anu!
What are you doing?
Anu, just listen to...
Anu. Anu!
Where are you going?
Anu!
Anu, let's...
You are right Shakuntala, but...
Yes, but...
That's true, but...
Right.
Come what may...
I'm going to marry Ajay.
Now you decide, Dad...
If you're on my side...
Or Ma's.
This is Anu Banerji.
I'm sorry I can't take your call
right now, please leave your number-
Ladies and Gentlemen...
Welcome to The Mohan Manhas Show!
Where we crack jokes
with famous folks!
Our special guest today calls
herself the 'Human Computer'.
I call myself Shakuntala.
People call me the Human Computer.
So Ms. Devi, we hear you're
doing very few shows of late...
Planning to retire?
Why would I retire...
When I can set a stage on fire!
Ooh! Your sense of
humour is surely intact!
So tell us...
Have your Maths skills
reduced with age?
Age is just a number.
And numbers love me!
And may I ask... How old are you?
- If you don't mind...
- No, no I don't mind.
I'm a day older than yesterday...
And a day younger than tomorrow.
Now you do the Math!
Well played, well played!
Okay then, let's keep playing.
We also have some
Math problems for you.
I thought this was just a talk show.
Wherever you go,
Maths follows. Right?
Starting easy.
What's the cube of 121.
1761561.
Sorry, I meant 1771561
which is also the 4th power of 11.
Ms. Devi, if my
calculations are right...
I think you mean
the sixth power of 11?
You are correct.
You're in the Guinness
Book of World Records...
So our next question should
be a piece of cake for you...
On your screen!
Ms. Devi?
I'm sorry... My head hurts.
I haven't slept well
the last few nights...
Can I get a two minute break please?
Of course.
Looks like the 'Human computer'
finally crashed today!
Don't go anywhere.
We'll be right back after a short break
with The Mohan Manhas Show!
Stop here.
The car can't go any further.
Shakuntala, you need to practice.
You're booked for
ten shows next week.
What goes around comes around.
Wait till your daughter
gives you a hard time!
You'll be a big man someday.
Why would I be a man?
Because there's no such
thing as a 'big woman'!
In that case,
I'll definitely be a big woman.
- God-promise?
- God- promise.
Amma, I'm talking to you!
Have you lost your voice?
Why can't you speak
up in front of him?
Amma!
Hello.
Vasanti?
I want to speak to my lawyer.
- Hi! Thanks a lot for coming.
- Thank you.
Hello. Thanks for coming.
Let me know what
you think of the house.
Hi! Please see all the rooms
and tell me what you think.
Thank you so much.
- Hi!
- Anu!
It's been so long.
Congratulations!
Thank you so much!
It's a dream come true.
I've refurbished four houses.
I hope we find good buyers now.
We've invested a lot!
- We were congratulating you about Amritha!
- Exactly!
Thank you.
- She's also a dream come true for me.
- 'Also'?
Anu, you're a mother now.
You should just have one dream now.
Exactly.
But where is she?
We still haven't met her.
How old is she now?
She's very young right now.
And I was so busy with work, that...
Busy, really?
This is the time for
you to enjoy her childhood.
These days won't ever come back!
You know Anu, I took a maternity
break from my job for my first baby.
And before I knew it,
I had another child.
Then I thought, 'Let it go.
I can always pick up a job later.'
My children needed me.
And I don't think
of this as sacrifice.
It's my duty!
Absolutely, it's never a sacrifice.
Please eat something.
I'll just go check on things.
- Hey, nice house!
-Thanks.
Anu. You killed it!
Everyone's full of praise for you.
- I'm going home.
- Why?
We're both here,
and Amritha's there alone...
It's okay! Her nanny's there.
But her mom isn't.
I'm leaving, you handle the rest.
Listen!
- Excuse me.
- Yeah sure.
Anu.
She's fast asleep.
I need to talk to you.
I need to tell you something first.
Okay.
You know, Ajay...
Maybe I was too harsh on Ma.
She calls me everyday
and I've never answered.
I've decided...
I'm going to call Ma
and tell her about Amritha.
First see what she's done.
Your mother has used her power of
attorney and sold all your properties.
My business properties in London?
Yes.
And what about my profit share?
Zero. Nothing.
Absolutely zilch.
In fact the capital gains tax
liability is completely on your name.
Which means you will have to pay it.
We'll have to pay it.
How much?
So much that even if we sell
our house and both our businesses...
We still won't be
able to pay it off, Anu.
Your mother has finished us.
We're finished!
Now what?
We have two options.
Either we sell everything we have,
borrow money from friends...
Take a bank loan and
get rid of this liability.
I'll take the other option.
The other option is legal.
We'll have to go to London and file
a court case against your mother.
A criminal case.
She could go to jail.
She wanted to fight.
Now she'll have to fight a war.
You need to be strong and brutal.
Don't get carried
away by any emotions.
We will win this.
Yes. Yes, we will.
Hello everyone.
Ms. Banerji, If you could
take a seat, please?
Anu.
Let's begin.
My client Ms. Anupama
Banerji would like to...
press criminal charges
against her mother...
for unlawfully selling her properties
that were in both their names...
and sending the tax bill
to an unsuspecting Ms. Banerji.
My client Shakuntala Devi
vehemently denies this charge.
It was her money that Anupama
Banerji used to build this business.
And Ms. Banerji did
not repay a penny of it.
So this justifies
the tax bill completely.
Shakuntala Devi
is an unfit mother...
who chased her ambitions at the
cost of raising her own daughter.
That's a false accusation.
Did she not take
Anu out of the country?
Did you not stop her from
going to school with other children?
She took her out of the country
from show to show, hotel to hotel...
Depriving her of any childhood.
Did she not keep Anu away
from her father for ten years?
Ten years!
And not even one letter was passed
on from her beloved father...
And did she not accuse her
father of being a homosexual...
At a public gathering!
Correct.
I'm sorry...
What?
I accept all your accusations.
Your lawyer is absolutely right.
I'm a terrible mother.
We made a profit of one million, one
thousand and one pounds exactly...
After selling the
properties, correct?
Yes, that's right.
What a beautiful number.
It's called a palindrome.
Meaning, it reads the
same frontwards and backwards.
I want to sign a cheque and give my
daughter the entire amount right now.
Ms. Devi, that's preposterous.
Anu if you want to press criminal
charges and send me to jail...
God-promise,
I'm ready to go to jail.
Ms. Devi, you can't just
lose this case like this.
I never lose, Mr Stevens...
I always win.
I just wanted to see
you once anyhow, Anu.
I've seen you now.
That's enough.
Who does all this
for such a small thing?
My Drama-Queen mother!
Do you have any idea
of the impact of your actions?
Don't you ever get tired?
Anu, I spent my...
entire life hating my mother...
I didn't want you
to hate me like that...
Anu...
Anu!
Ms. Devi, please.
We have to talk through this.
Can we step out?
Yes that would be a good idea.
Let's all take a small break.
I need to be alone.
Okay. I'll be right outside
if you need me, okay?
Ajay!
You okay?
I always used to ridicule
her Black-Book...
But see...
She actually made one for me!
This is me with the Prime
Minister of Mauritius...
With the President of Kenya...
This is in Canada...
And look, that's me
with Amitabh Bachchan!
Whenever Ma met a film star,
she'd tell them-
"My daughter's your biggest fan!"
And then they would go-
"Really?
Which one's your favourite film?"
And I would just freeze.
I had no clue who they were.
And Ma would burst out laughing!
I always thought I had
such a terrible childhood...
Then why am I smiling
in all these pictures?
I always thought
you and I are one team.
That we belong to each other.
But when I saw the two
of you together today...
I realised...
Your team has changed, Anu.
I can't fight with you anymore, Ma.
Anu, I'm sorry.
I couldn't be the mother you wanted.
I wasn't exactly
a model daughter either!
You had to quit Maths because of me.
When you left,
Maths left me too, Anu...
I'm sorry, Ma...
I always saw you as a mother.
Never as a woman.
Now that I have my own daughter,
I understand...
What? Am I already
old enough to be a grandma?
Are you happy or sad!
I've never been happier
in my whole life!
My baby.
Mothers and daughters...
What a waste of a day!
Mothers and daughters!
Mothers and daughters...
Amritha!
How could you name her
Amritha without asking me?
It's okay, gentlemen.
But my instinct says...
You'll have another daughter,
and she'll be called Nayana!
Excuse me.
I'll be outside.
Take your time.
By the way,
Ajay's not so bad after all.
Thanks Ma!
He reminds me of Paritosh.
But living in one city,
with one man, forever...
What kind of life is that?
Don't say 'normal'!
The genius...
Guinness Book record-holding
world-famous Mathematician...
The Human Computer!
Shakuntala Devi Ma'am,
it is my absolute honour...
to give away the prestigious Mathematics
Lifetime Achievement Award to you.
Oh please!
I am younger than you in mind!
Shakuntala Ma'am, we can't let you
go without saying a couple of words.
A couple?
'Thank you.'
Can I leave now?
Please, no.
- Can you keep it there please?
- Yes.
Thank you.
Zero is my favorite number.
Maybe because this world is round?
Sometimes life teaches us lessons...
By making us spin in circles!
Today, I want to say something...
That I haven't even
said to myself before.
All my life,
I was angry with my mother.
And I didn't realize
when anger turned into hate.
I was angry that she never
spoke up in front of my father.
Because she didn't
have a voice of her own.
Maybe that's why today...
...I have my own voice.
It was only when my daughter
explained it to me, that I realised...
I always saw my mother
just as a mother...
And never as a woman.
I never understood her.
My only ambition in life...
Was to not become like my mother.
And so perhaps
everything I am today...
Is because of her.
Ma!
I'm proud of you!
I am also who I am
because of my daughter.
My darling Anu, who is whistling
from the audience for me.
Her whistles and the pride
I see in her eyes today...
Is my biggest award.
Every mom hopes that her daughter
won't just see her as a mother...
But also as a genius sometimes.
Okay, I've rambled on enough...
Shall we do some Maths?
Yes...
Is everyone low on energy?
I can't hear you yet!
Yes!
Okay so today, I am going to introduce
you to 'Miss Revolving Number'.
She's very special.
I'll tell you why!
142857...
That's my mother.
My amazing mother!
Our relationship wasn't
built on reverence or sacrifice.
She wasn't the typical mom
who exists in books and films...
Because my mother knew
how to live for herself.
She knew how to value herself.
She knew how to embrace
life wholeheartedly.
Everyday, I strive to
be a little like her.
God-promise.
BODMAS.
B for Bracket.
O for Order.
D for Division.
M for Multiplication.
A for Addition.
S for Subtraction.
Two chickens each for you and me
Make four chickens in all
Seven notes on the count of three
Put the melody in a song
Numbers make the world go round
Step out of the box and see
Why become a bookworm...
Set your mind free
Sing with me
1,2,3,4...
There's no pass, there's no fail
Be fearless, all is well
Sing with me!
There's no pass, there's no fail
It's a classroom not a jail
Set your mind free
Be fearless and sing with me
Sing with me!
It's easier than it seems
No reason to lose your mind
Just take on what it brings
Kick your fears behind
Why let books weigh you down
It's time to let them go
You're light as a whiff of air
So take flight and soar!
Sing with me
1,2,3,4...
There's no pass, there's no fail
Be fearless, all is well
Sing with me!
There's no pass, there's no fail
It's a classroom not a jail
Set your mind free
Be fearless, all is well
Sing with me!